---
layout: post
title: Week Two
---
After two weeks in Object-Oriented Programming, things are still going well and it has still been a good experience. The lectures continue to be engaging and the material communicated in a very clear and understandable way. Not only are we being taught what to think and learn (which have been very useful topics thus far), but it is also clear that Professor Downing is trying to influence how we think and learn in a positive way.  While drilling the small details and differences between concepts (white box vs. black box testing, lazy caching vs. eager caching vs. metacaching, etc.), the discussions are always brought back and applied to the bigger picture of what they are actually used for, what they accomplish and how they can be implemented in combination with other concepts to give birth to much more effective and creative solutions to problems. This has continued the trend of very useful and cohesive lectures inside of the classroom.

Now let's transition to what goes on outside of the classroom. Having gotten into the meat of our first project, I am beginning to see where much of the time will be spent on projects for the course. The first project is by no means challenging in terms of finding a working solution. The challenge comes from all of the small software engineering components of the workflow that can be tedious and time consuming when trying to get the program to run smoothly in multiple environments while keeping track of the progress with commits and issue trackers between branches. While it is more than is what required of many projects in your typical CS course, it is nothing compared to what will be encountered in the real world after graduation. While it can be a tedious and painful process at times, it is well worth further developing software engineering skills that will absolutely come in handy when it comes time to pickup new software engineering tools to create much more complex environments and workflows in the future.

Tip-of-the-Week: Get started on projects early. They will take more time than you think they will because of the process of setting up your working environment. Then comes the easy part, doing the project.
